Let's do a bit of an exercise.
I have a piece of code here.
And as you can see I have variable a that is a function and inside of that function we have another
variable cost B that is also a function that we run at the end.
The B function and then inside of that we also have a C function.
But this time around C is an object that has property high which is a function and at the end we're
calling C dot high.
Just to clear this up I'm going to add a here in the console log.
Want to add B in the console log.
And then finally c in the console log.
Now when I run this function it's going to execute this piece of code which executes goes to all the
steps and executes B which will execute this piece of code.
And this B will finish off with executing C dot.
Hi hit pause and think about what's going to happen because in just a few seconds we're gonna find out.
Let's see
is that what you expected.
Let's see what happened here a equals to the window object or the this keyword here refers to window
and that makes sense right.
We called a who called a while the window object called a right what about though.
Who called B.
It's nested inside the a function.
Maybe you thought that we would have something else as B but that's not really the case right.
Remember all we did was we called the a function and the a function executed this piece of code and
the B function well who called the B function.
There's nothing to the left or the B right.
There's no other object that called B so in this case what's to the left of the dot.
Well nothing has changed.
And the this keyword who called me is still window because we have a window
a function that got called and inside of here we called the B function but to the left of the dot it's
still the window object.
Now when we get to see that's when the interesting thing happens because we have an object and that
should trigger something for us.
As soon as we have an object we now see that C dot Hi.
Got called.
So when we call Hi What's the this keyword Well hi what's called right here.
And who called Hi.
Well seeded.
So the this keyword or who called me is the high or the C object and this is unlike anything we've seen
before remember when I told you about lexical scope lexical environment how the compiler knew right
away without running any piece of code what variables functions have access to it almost looks like
lexical scope doesn't work with this it doesn't really matter where we write it in the piece of code
right.
All that matters is how what gets called during invocation who calls it it matters how the function
was called Let me show you another interesting example let's say we have an object and this object will
have name once again and Billy is gonna make an appearance.
Once again and belly is going to sink.
And here was just to console log God or a console log this.
Nothing new here.
We've seen this before but let's add something new to this.
And one of the biggest gotchas when it comes to this keyword is in here.
I create a another variable and this variable will be another function that will be function.
And then here will have console log
and just for clarity let's just say B for this one and a for this one.
And the sing function will actually at the very end call the another function.
What do you think will happen here now.
Again the ripple over here has some safeguards in place so it actually won't let us run this properly.
So I'm going to copy this and open up the console let's refresh.
Copy and paste here.
Now when I create this object and I now run object dot saying let's see what happens is that what you
expected.
I have a.
So the value of this referring to the object that had Billy and the sync function that makes a lot of
sense.
But what about this one what just happened here.
This doesn't make sense at all right.
I mean isn't this inside of the object over here.
Why is this referring to the window object.
And this is like I said one of the biggest gotchas when it comes to the this keyword because the this
keyword is not lexical e scoped that is it doesn't matter where it is run.
It matters how the function was called what actually happened underneath the hood is that object dot
saying ran in this object dot saying inside of the sync function that's where another function car ran
object didn't really call another function the sync function did in JavaScript this keyword defaults
to the window object in here.
I know it's extremely confusing right and this created a lot of problems for people because this error
was so common.
Remember this in javascript our lexical scope that is available data variables where the function was
defined determines are available variables not where the function is called which is called Dynamic
scoping but there's actually a little footnote to the state right because everything in Javascript is
actually lexical a scoped how you write it determines what we have available except for the this keyword
this keyword is actually dynamically scoped that is it doesn't matter where it's run it matters how
the function was called.
So how do we fix this problem.
How can we avoid this pitfall that a lot of people had had in the past.
Well there's two ways to do this.
Let's have a look if I copy this back and let's just refresh here I can solve this issue using what
we got in yes six arrow functions and you may have heard the term arrow functions are Lexa Glee bound
that is air functions has a lexical this behavior unlike normal functions.
So if I changed this function to an arrow function instead it's going to lexical eat bind this that
is hey what object is surrounding this.
While the main object is so by just doing this if I run this say sync
Hey look at that.
Problem solved.
Not too bad right.
And that's what the arrow functions gave us which was amazing.
It prevents a lot of this confusion.
And this is something we're going to talk more about in the object oriented programming section.
But what do we do before we had iOS 6 and Ara functions.
Another way that we were able to do this before we had our functions was to do something like this where
I return another function and I bind to this which because we're doing this line of code outside of
this function.
This is going to refer to the object let's see what happens when I do that and I have to refresh.
Let's try that again.
And if I do object dot saying but then object dot saying actually returns another function.
So if I do object dot saying call the function and then call the function again which will be running
this line of code.
Look at that both this keywords are now part of the object.
Now I know that's really confusing.
I just wanted to show you what we did to solve this issue before we had error functions.
But what does bind really do well in the next video we're gonna find out.
I just remembered there is one more way of solving this issue the issue of this keyword in here inside
of another function being the window object and this is something that you may have seen a lot especially
if you've worked in the past with J query or the first version of angular where in order for us to capture
the this value and in order to have a referencing the object what we would do is outside of the function
itself create a reference so that for example variable self is equal to this and because of the time
this line is run this is still inside of the object.
We're going to maintain that reference to the object so that here we can use self inside of the another
function so that if I run this function I see that both the sing function has a reference to this which
is the object and also the another function has the reference to the object using the self variable.